Hello.
Welcome back.
In this video we're going to combine everything that we just learned to show you why javascript is useful
because I know some of your thinking.
OK.
We learned a whole bunch of new ways of writing javascript and we learned about arrays and objects but
I don't really know how that relates to me building Web sites or Web apps.
Well I'm going to show you that we can build a simplified version of Facebook with what we just learned
so let's get started.
We're gonna have a database with usernames and passwords we're going to have a news feed and we're gonna
have users.
So let's start off by thinking about how Facebook works with Facebook.
We have a sign up form usually we need to sign in and once we sign in if it's correct it goes to our
profile where we can view our news feed so let's build that we can start off with having something called
a database.
So we'll have a variable database.
And in this database we can have multiple users.
Right.
So what do we need here.
We need an array a list of users.
So now I can say
I have a user name and this might look familiar from our previous lessons.
We'll have a user name of Andre and a password of super secret.
For now we're just going to leave it at one user.
We have a database and we also want to have a news feed right.
So let's have a variable called news feed.
And in here a news feed.
Well again it's a list an array of news so we can have a user name Bobby that on his timeline has maybe
so tired from all that learning.
We also have we we have more than one item usually in a news feed.
We can say that user name Sally Sally on her timeline just posted javascript is so cool OK.
So we have a new seed which has an array of objects and we have a database which is an array of just
a single object right now a username and password.
Now how can we build a sign and form.
Well we would want to perform an action to check a user's credentials their username and password well
we've done this before right.
We've used prompt before accepts a user's input so we can do variable user name prompt we'll say equals
prompt
what's your user name OK.
We also have.
I'm going to make this smaller just so everything fits in here.
Hopefully you can still see we have variable password prompt that equals prompt.
What's your password.
Question mark OK so we have this working when we open up this file and refresh H2 e-mail is gonna get
loaded.
Line by line and we see we have a script.
Let me load the script and then the browser reads line by line.
We have a database.
We have a news feed and then it's going to say user name prompt equals prompt and it's going to ask
us for what's your user name and then it's going to ask us for what's your password.
Well let's just test that.
I'm going to save and refresh and there you go.
What's your new user name Andre.
And what's your password super secret.
That's very nice but when I sign in.
I either want to know that my password is incorrect or if I log in and everything is correct I'm gonna
get my niece fee right.
So it sounds like we need to perform an action but we don't really have a sign in function in javascript
do we.
It's a custom function that we need to build ourself so let's think about this.
We want to create a function called sign in and to sign in what do we need.
Well we need a user name and password and we can name these whatever we want.
And just to prove that to you I'm just gonna do user
and password.
We'll do pass like that OK.
And if we remember to create a function this is function declaration.
I have my curly brackets and in here I can do something.
So again let's think about this logically in order to sign in.
I need to check username and password.
Well if the function gets the first argument to user Bill I can say that if user name on this case user
equals.
Well what does it equal.
We need to check against our database right.
Our database when Andre signed up for Facebook he put his user name down and password down so we have
that information so we can say that when you sign in.
We're gonna check user to see that the user matches database.
And it's an array.
So we're gonna grab the first element in the array and we're gonna grab the user name
OK.
And we also want to check the password drain.
So what do we do when we have to check two things both a conditional that has and so here I can say
password should equal database first item in the array.
And this time instead of username it's password I'm going to put this on our new line just so you can
see it.
There you go so sign and function is going to say if user equals whatever we have in the database username
and password equals whatever we have in the database.
If that is right.
Well we can say Soledad.
Log and we'll say news feed else if the password or username is not correct.
We'll just stay alert.
Sorry wrong user name and password
so we have our function but this disappeared somewhere.
And we'll save this.
And let's just refresh OK what is your user name.
We'll say Andre and what is your password.
Well we'll say super secret.
I press enter.
OK.
And now nothing happens because well we haven't called the function right.
We just know that sign it exists.
Let's just check that sign and exists.
Sign in is not defined oh it's because I spelled it.
I spelled it wrong.
Let's do signing again.
Let's refresh Andre super secret and if I look for a sign and now yep there's the function.
So let's run it.
Let's do sign in and we'll say user name prompt password prompt.
We just received our news feed.
That's very cool.
Let's put this inside though.
So the script just runs and and we'll get our answer right away.
So we'll do user name prompt and password prompt now just to show you what I did here.
I am calling the function signing that accepts two parameters user and password.
So when I call the function I'm going to give it to arguments to match those parameters.
I'm going to give it the user name prompt which contains whatever we've written in the first prompt
and then password prompt which contains whatever we've written.
And the second prompt.
So now if I save this and refresh I can say what's your username Andre.
Password super secret and look at that.
Now I'm logged in and I can view that Bobby is so tired from all that learning and Sally Well Sally
finds javascript really really cool let's also try out the L statement in case we mess up our information
I press refresh and I'll do Andre and for password I'll just do one two three I'll get sorry wrong user
name and password.
There you go.
We've built a basic Facebook and that's what's so amazing about JavaScript is that you look at Web sites
like Facebook that seem really really complicated but they're all made of these small chunks and the
functionality that you see on Facebook is exactly that we are signing in and they're checking the signing
information against the database and then based on if we're right or wrong we either get the news feed
or we get you know please sign in again and that's the power of JavaScript right here and this is why
I'm so excited to teach you the topic because it opens up a whole new possibility of pretty much doing
anything online now I have another exciting video for you coming up next.
I'll see you on that one by.